75 to 90% of every person that walks
into a healthc care facility in the
Western World walks in because of
emotional or psychological stress we
also know that people become addicted to
the stress hormones to those emotions
and then they need the bad job they need
the bad relationship they need the
traffic they need the news just so that
they can stay in that emotional state
but now you're headed for disease
because no organism can live in
emergency mode for that extended period
of time but I literally can give people
the tools to be able to break those
emotional addictions and our data shows
it works better than any drug Dr Joe
dispenza is a world leading voice on the
power of the Mind whose groundbreaking
research has unlocked a practical
formula to empower millions of people to
rewire their minds and create
longlasting change if I'm looking to
change my life because it's in this
horrible cycle of the same old same old
and I feel about myself what do I need
to know I think that the first thing is
you can't tell me that your past was so
brutal that you can't change cuz we have
seen people with some really really
horrible pasts abuses difficult
childhoods some very serious traumas we
have seen them change that belief and
become completely different people but
also the research shows that 50% of the
story We Tell in our past isn't even the
truth that means that people are
reliving a miserable life they never
even had just to excuse themselves from
changing or they wait for something to
go wrong in their life and that's when
they go okay I'm ready to change why
wait for that you know we can learn and
change in a saate of pain and suffering
can learn and change in a state of joy
and inspiration and so I want to provide
people the information how to make new
Connections in their brain and be able
to think act and feel differently in
your same environment so let's break it
down this has always blown my mind a
little bit 53% of you that listen to the
show regularly haven't yet subscribed to
the show so could I ask you for a favor
before we start if you like the show and
you like what we do here and you want to
support us the free simple way that you
can do just that is by hitting the
Subscribe button and my commitment to
you is if you do that then I'll do
everything in my power me and my team to
make sure that this show is better for
you every single week we'll listen to
your feedback we'll find the guests that
you want me to speak to and we'll
continue to do what we do thank you so
[Music]
much Dr Joe how do you define when
someone asks you what it is you do I
teach people uh the neuroscience and the
biology of what it really means to
change and I think when we change our
life changes so my interest is to
demystify that process so that people
have within their reach the tools to
make measurable changes in their lives
and what is that you're drawing upon
what experiences what studies what
research you drawing upon to give the
world these Solutions I was interested
really in the transcendental experience
the transcendental moment um so when
when I started teaching this work um I
taught the work because people were
asking how do you do it like how do you
change your life and what does it mean
to change and
so I want to provide people the
information uh where they can actually
learn the information make new
Connections in their brain that's what
learning is repeat what they've learned
to the person next to them you know
build a model of understanding so you
can remember it remind yourself what
you've learned because it's so much
easier forget this information then to
remember it so create a new level of
mind um take away all the doubt the
conjecture the Superstition the
dogma and so that the person can
actually understand what they're doing
and why they're doing so the how gets
easier and when the how gets easier we
assign meaning to the act because we
understand what we're doing and when we
do that we want a greater outcome so I
want to give people the information and
I com I looked at all the latest
research that pointed the finger at
human potential and human
possibility I had my own personal
experience with a personal injury we
talked about it last time I studied
spontaneous remissions I wanted to see
what people had in common with each
other and I couldn't find the
explanation pretty much in contemporary
uh uh texts I had to start looking at
neuroplasticity and epigenetics and then
I wanted to see well now that I know
what people did and I understood what
they did to have their own personal
healings and
transformation um could I reproduce the
effects that no knowing what they did
finding out what the commonalities were
uh putting it in the language of Science
and then teaching it to people they
could be sick or they could be well it
wouldn't matter but understand what they
did in order for them to change and have
their life change and after a couple
years of teaching it we started to see
kind of the same type of effects uh in
those people that were applying and
doing something with it so so this is a
time in history where it's not enough to
know this is a time in history to know
how so when we started seeing people
stepping out of wheelchairs and having
dramatic changes in their health I knew
that in some moment uh during the
retreat or during their
meditation
that something happened to them they had
an experience inwardly that must have
changed them biologically in other words
if you come into a an event and uh you
have three days to be together and at
the end of three days you're you're no
longer in your wheelchair and you no
longer have symptoms of MS that you know
the the human being in me said wow
that's amazing the scientists and me
said how like how did that
happen so that's when we started doing
our own independent research and that's
when I started calling in N scientists
and um you know biologists and and
Quantum physicists and and and really
scientists to measuring it heart rate
variability uh to look to see what was
going on uh in people that were coming
to our events so I could answer the
question by saying now that the majority
of the
research uh that I look at is our own
personal research and we have the
largest
database uh in the world now on
meditation and the Mind Body Connection
and what we do is we really work on
demystifying the process of change and
transformation and if we're able to
demystify it I think all the all of the
measurements of the transformation that
we're seeing is more information for me
to teach transformation better and I
think that's how we close the gap
between knowledge and experience so we
have a huge research team we work with
UC San Diego we work with other
universities like Harvard Stanford and
the data is so compelling uh and the
data is so amazing uh that um uh I think
we're making scientific history right
now hundreds of millions of people have
been drawn to you for their own reasons
my partner is one of them my girlfriend
she has attended your events she's she's
one of your biggest fans in the world
and she's experienced her own
transformation as a product of attending
your events but also last conversation
if I look at the co top comments it's
just a string of testimonials from
people who have been engaged with your
work for decades who have had personal
transformation in their life in their
family what is the essence of why people
come to you like if you think about the
hundreds of millions of people that have
interacted with your work what do they
have in common what is it they're
looking for people come for all kinds of
reasons the Baseline is that they
understand on some level that that
meditation can change their body and
change their life some people uh
understand that there's a that they
could have mystical experiences without
using any exogenous substances so we
have people to come that come that want
to heal their body that want to have a
new job or a new career or become
abundant people that want to have loving
relationships some people want to have
mystical experiences whatever that is
right but the person is coming with the
intention of actually creating exactly
what they want so they that's the that's
what they think they're there for but in
time um what they're really coming for
is to change uh and um even the people
who heal from all kinds of health
conditions what I learned in the last
couple years is they're not doing their
meditations to heal they're doing their
meditations to change and when they
change they heal and so what they begin
to Crave is the next unknown experience
you know that that experience that
exists really Beyond three-dimensional
reality but but I would say that the
majority of people come for a particular
reason and after a period of time they
just want to get more whole and I don't
think there's an end to that is there a
bug in our minds or in our society or
within culture that stands in the way of
our ability to change and I think as I
asked that question question what I'm
really trying to get at is there's a
culture that's emerged almost like a bit
of a trauma culture where we we kind of
explain who we are based on what's
happened to us and it seems to be
justified I this thing happened when I
was a kid and that's why I am this way
is that approach to viewing our trauma
productive or unproductive and is it a
problem the stronger the emotion we feel
from some event in our life a trauma a
betrayal a loss a shock
um a
diagnosis the the event produces an
emotional response and the high quotient
of the emotional response changes our
internal State and the moment we feel
altered inside of us the brain takes a
snapshot freezes a frame or a series of
frames and takes snapshots and that's
called a long-term
memory so then from a biological
perspective every time the person rememb
the problem they're producing the exact
same chemistry in their brain and body
as if the event was happening cortisol
the adrenaline whatever the emotion is
when they feel that emotion we could say
then that the body is reliving the event
emotionally 50 to 100 times in a day so
the trauma is no longer in the brain at
that point now the trauma is also in the
body because thoughts are the language
of the brain brain and feelings are the
language of the body and it's that
thought and that feeling it's that image
and that emotion it's that stimulus and
response that's conditioning the body
subconsciously to become the mind of
that emotion and now that person
emotionally is a brand branded into the
past and you can say to them why are you
this way why are you so angry why are
you so bitter why are you so mistrusting
why are you so afraid and they'll say to
you I am this way
because of these events or that event
that happened to me in my life 20 or 30
years ago now this is kind of an
interesting thing because in a sense
their
identity is completely connected to
their past and they as long as they feel
that
emotion uh they'll always remember the
past so
now the body is so objective when it
feels that emotion it does not know the
difference between the real life
experience that's creating the emotion
and the emotion that person is
fabricating by thought alone so now the
body's believing it's living in the past
event 24 hours a day 7 days a week 365
days a year but what the person is
really saying is after that event I
haven't been able to
change that's what they're saying and
so that becomes the person's identity
and there's nothing wrong with this but
you'll never hear me say uh in any of
the work that we do uh go back and
process the past
um uh we we've discovered that when a
person
analyzes uh their problems uh within the
emotions of the past they make their
brain worse they actually drive it
further out of balance they're they're
over arousing it we discovered is that
if the person can get beyond the
emotion truly get beyond the emotion
uh they'll free themselves from the past
and what we discovered is that if you
teach a person to give up the
fear the bitterness the resentment the
frustration the impatience the Judgment
you say stop feeling that emotion I know
there's a reason why I'm sure
everybody's got a story right so but
there's nothing that's going to change
that story until you change right and so
we discovered that if you trade those
emotions
for an elevated emotion if you start
feeling gratitude and appreciation and
love and kindness and care and you
practice feeling that emotion we give
you some tools to to use to change your
breathing to put your attention a a
different place and to work with your
body what we discovered is when the
person can truly begin to open their
heart and we have brain scans on this
when the heart begins to open and it
begins to become coherent in other words
when you're feel feeling uh frustration
or impatience or judgment your heart is
beating very incoherently when you're
feeling love and gratitude kindness and
Care there's a rhythm there's a there's
a Cadence that the heart has that's it's
very coherent when the heart gets
coherent we measure
this it immediately informs the brain
that the trauma is over the heart tells
the brain the past is over the event is
over and it resets the
Baseline uh in the brain and so now the
person when they look back at their past
they're no longer looking at it from the
same level of Consciousness in fact many
of them will say oh my God I needed to
go through all of that to get to this
point right here they'll tell you they
they'll they'll say I wouldn't want to
change one thing in my past because it
got me to the present moment okay
so we work with Navy Seals special ops
prisoners we work with people uh that
have had some very serious traumas
really serious abuses uh um uh just
difficult childhoods uh these people are
you know night terrors uh
suicidal um can't you know leave their
homes uh socially
uh having trouble panic attacks it's
kind of funny because the moment that
person actually breaks through from the
emotion and the words they typically
describe was they say was like my heart
exploded it's like my heart blew wide
open the moment that happens they're
bringing their body right out of the
past right into the present moment and
lo and behold many times there goes the
anxiety there goes the depression there
goes the cyclic mood patterns somehow
the body uh gets recalibrated back into
order back into homeostasis so
the point I'm making is is that the
memory without the emotional charge is
called wisdom and now you're you're
ready for the next adventure in your
life the soul can't go to the next
adventure if it's holding on to the past
so we don't really ever address the
story because the story is only firing
and wiring the same circuits in the
brain reaffirming the identity to the
Past just to feel the same emotion and
the research shows that 50% of the story
We Tell in our past is is even the truth
that means that people are reliving a
miserable life they never even had just
to excuse themselves from changing right
I'm not taking shots at anybody but what
I am saying is you can't tell me that
your past was so brutal that you can't
change CU we have seen people with some
really really horrible pasts um that
literally literally are are completely
different people that have completely
different lives I really want to focus
in on what it is we're getting wrong
when we're trying to treat trauma in
modern society because I see all of
these Retreats that are like inner child
healing and they kind of take you back
to when you were a young child the thing
that happened to you whatever happened
in your life and they kind of walk you
back through it um there's also various
types of therapy that make you kind of
recount the events and then they ask you
questions about it you're saying that
you don't feel like those approaches are
optimal because they just keep you in
that circuit of living reliving the
emotion no I I wouldn't say they're not
optimal I mean I'm sure there's value
for people all I'm saying is that um
when does the story end and I'm not
certain that
Insight changes Behavior you could have
a realization or even from an exogenous
drug you can have a realization or an
Insight but if you still can't function
in your life and you're still you know
you're haven't connected with your wife
or you know you're still dealing with
trauma it just hasn't served you at all
like so the Insight that your your
father was overbearing or your mother
was a perfectionist or you were beaten
as a kid uh and that's why you're this
way it doesn't change the behavior let
me give you an example then from my life
because this will make it really
specific so when I was young something
I've talked about on the show but it's
just an example that allows me to Think
Through um your approach my mom and dad
argued a lot and I would watch my mother
in particular spend a lot of time
shouting at my dad my dad didn't really
respond he was very passive and it made
me feel a certain way as a young child
which meant that when I grew up I just
wanted to avoid women all cost in terms
of romantic commitment because I was
almost reliving the emotion of
imprisonment that I observed in my
father so I felt like when a girl was
interested in me throughout all of my
teen years throughout my early 20s even
if I was interested in her the minute we
came to Commitment I'd get that feeling
like I was signing up for prison and I
would reject now I got an insight into
this by writing in my diary actually
from doing this podcast because I used
to do it on my own just solo episodes
and I could see a pattern I could see
that someone asks me to commit I get
this weird feeling I reject them and
then I asked myself where did that weird
feeling come from in your past and I
remembered oh that's how I felt watching
my father and my mom when she would just
um scream at him for long periods of
time I had the Insight which was
somewhat useful but you're right in that
it didn't necessarily stop stop the
feeling but but what you did really well
is is in order for us to
change we have to become so conscious
of those unconscious beliefs and what's
a belief thought you just keep thinking
over and over again or how you've been
programmed right as a belief we have to
become so aware of our automatic habits
and behaviors and we have to pay
attention to our emotional states if
we're going to change and staying
conscious of our unconscious self is is
is really the the work that it takes to
really overcome so you can become
another person that's 95% of a person by
the the middle of their life their you
know hardwired attitudes beliefs and
perceptions automatic habits and
behaviors and unconscious emotional
responses 95% of us as programmed so as
a child your brain waves are um very
slow the door between the conscious mind
and the subconscious mind is wide open
your brain waves are in Alpha and Theta
and so you're very suggestible to to the
information and so your exposure to that
cause you to learn that that you know
your observation causes you to get
programmed to that the way life is by by
Mir neurons looking at behaviors that
are being programmed in you so so but
that's not who you are right so the fact
that you became conscious like oh my God
I do this oh my God I see where I got it
from okay that doesn't mean that that
I'm going to excuse myself and say I
can't be in relationships you could some
people do that might be a different
belief but they do that but you said I
really want to have a meaningful
relationship I really want to overcome
this that is part of me that I want to
change right so so you recognize that
that's called metacognition right the
the fact that you can objectify your
subjective self and observe yourself
that's Consciousness right and when
you're conscious then that's when you're
not
unconscious and being unconscious is
being in the program so how many times
do we have to forget until we stop
forgetting and start remembering that's
the moment of change so you said okay
that's
uncomfortable that must mean something
and you actually went on a a personal
exploration yeah do something with the
Insight with the provocation with the
interest of actually wanting to change
yourself in some way so that you create
a a greater experience of life that
there is love in life and that you can
have a committed relationship and it
could be different from your parents and
now you know what you're not going to be
right so I think all of that is valuable
I think every experience that we have in
our life that programs us to be a
certain way sooner or later if we're if
we're interested in arriving at the
goals and dreams that we want there's we
have to leave that behind sooner or
later a part of us Must Die uh as sooner
or later we have to leave that so I
think you I think that's that's
Evolution that first is the first step
Insight like is this a a sequential
multi-step process to change I think
that I think Insight is an AS ECT of um
awareness so is awareness States yeah so
Consciousness is awareness and awareness
is paying attention and
noticing so I think that I think the
first step is to become conscious um
that we're a certain way and sometimes
it lands as an Insight or a download or
a life experience that just kind of goes
you go wo like you know so I I I behaved
this way or I did this thing so so I
think I think when you you don't have
that you don't have a conscience and you
can just and you can just keep staying
in that world and but but sooner or
later uh you have to become aware how do
I increase my awareness by paying
attention is there a practice or a
system or a process yeah yeah but
what what we know is that that the the
more you practice being present the
better you get at it okay and so how do
you do that if you sit in a meditation
right and so there's a mode in the brain
called default mode and it's just always
busy it's consuming enormous amounts of
energy in the brain and it's always
trying to predict the future based on
what it knows in the past it's a kind of
an anticipation machine it's always
trying to um fill in a known in reality
so we feel safe
so a default mode system in the brain
when you close your eyes on a meditation
is going going to immediately go into
overdrive it's going to say oh my back
hurts a little bit I'm kind of thirsty
how long's this going to go I really
don't want to do this I don't like the
music you know uh is it's might be too
long oh I'm starting to get a little
frustrated I want to lay down you know
all this stuff comes up and then people
have the belief and they say I can't
meditate that's that's their conclusion
from The Experience that's their I'm not
a good meditator that's their
affirmation that's their belief right
from that experience but if you say to a
person listen that's normal
but every time you catch
yourself going unconscious catch
yourself going unconscious and become
conscious that's a
victory and as tedious as it may be in
the
beginning the more you catch yourself
going unconscious and becoming conscious
the more conscious you become in your
life and and all of a sudden you begin
to pay attention to things that you
weren't paying attention to before so in
the work that we do we say that being in
the present moment truly in the present
moment is being comfortable in the
unknown right the present moment is the
unknown because there is the familiar
past that we feel emotionally and we
have the predictable future which are
both the
knowns being the present moment is being
the unknown and that goes against
thousands of years of programming
because our biology is programmed that
if we are truly the unknown we should be
in survival because if you're in
survival and you're in the fight ORF
flight system the unknown is a threat
it's a danger so always try to predict
the future based on the past and you'll
have better chances of survival predict
the worst case scenario be ready for
that anything less that happens you have
better chance of
surviving so then to rest in the unknown
goes against a lot of our biology and we
discovered that when a person keeps
doing it over and over again the body
gets agitated it gets frustrated it gets
impatient instead of the person saying I
quit give them something to do and they
can lower the volume to the emotion and
settle the animal down like training an
animal setting settling the body back
down into the present moment we we teach
people how to do that and that's the
victory giving them something to do yeah
they have it they have something to do
when that comes up okay which is I I'll
get to it in a second and if they catch
their mind going from a person to
another person to another object to
their cell phone to their computer to a
place they need to be and you know a
time and know their they catch
themselves with their brain firing in
modulated
compartments if they keep catching
themselves doing that if they keep doing
that and they they catch the circuit
when it's firing and they settle it down
in time sooner later they're going to
stop firing those circuits in the brain
and their brain waves begin to change
change from an agitated aroused State
into a more coherent and slower brain
wave state so when they do this enough
times the brain begins to synchronize
the brain begins to fire in Greater
levels of wholeness or greater levels of
order so when that occurs then the
nervous system gets very regulated gets
very orderly the autonomic nervous
system moves into a state of
regulation disregulation of the
autonomic nervous system is called
stress right so so to answer your
question when people do this really well
in just a few days they'll get really
good at it the side effect of that is
they get very relaxed in their heart
it's relaxed in the heart and it's awake
in the brain and the more relaxed you
get in your heart we've discovered
really relaxing into your heart the more
the heart informs the brain to get
creative and so now the person has this
kind of synchronization that's taking
place between their part in their brain
as well and they can rest in the present
moment
so the way you do that is you define
what it really means to change and to
change is to be greater than the
conditions in your environment to be
able to think act and feel differently
in your same environment that's what
change is to change is to be greater
than your body to be greater than its Dy
lives in the meditation I'm speaking
specifically greater than its emotional
responses its memories its emotional
reactions greater than its habits The
Habit is when you've done something so
many times the body knows how to do it
better than the conscious mind there
that's so so if you're sitting in a
meditation your body wants to get up and
wants to get going and got people to see
things to do that's kind of like
automatic right and people get up and
they say I can't meditate but if you
tell them that when you notice that you
bring your body back into the present
moment you settle it down and tell it
it's no longer the mind that you're the
mind you're training the animal sooner
or later the body literally responds to
a new mind and there's literally a
liberation of energy the body begins to
liberate energy and if the person's not
thinking about time if you're not
thinking about where you need to be
where you need to go where you were
yesterday where you're sitting where you
live you know if you're not thinking
about any place you can go from
somewhere to nowhere and if you're not
thinking about the predictable future or
the familiar past you can go from
sometime to no time and we discovered
when a person becomes nobody no one no
thing nowhere and no time they literally
become pure Consciousness and opening
our awareness I know this is kind of
difficult to explain because we're
materialists opening our awareness to
nothing and sensing space
tends to cause us to move more into the
Eternal present moment and there's a
change that takes place in the brain so
we teach that and what awareness comes
out of that state so if I'm looking to
change my life because you know I'm
continually performing habits that are
not optimal you know I want to be
married and have a family and I want to
be productive in my work and I want to
go to the gym and Etc and my life is
just in this horrible cycle of the same
old same old same old and I feel
about about myself I know what I say I
want but I feel about myself what's
going to emerge from that process of
deep meditation in ter of awareness
you'll become so conscious of those
unconscious habits that more than likely
you won't want to do them again and
that's what uh uh for the most part
change is about so I think
people wait for crisis you know they
wait for disease they wait for a
betrayal something to go wrong in their
life and that's when they go okay I'm
ready to change my message is why wait
dude like why wait for that you know we
can learn and change in a state of pain
and suffering we can learn and change in
a state of joy and inspiration so then
you get a collective group of people
together that really may have all those
bad habits they they they may even have
bad habits that they don't even know
they
have and then all of a sudden they
become aware that they've been blaming
and complaining and making excuses and
feeling sorry for themselves and
procrastinating
and they start to reason if my
personality creates my personal reality
if I'm going to create a new personal
reality I got to change my personality
because this guy that that that's this
isn't the guy that wants to be happy
this is the guy who's committed to being
unhappy okay let's break it down let's
get down the fundamentals and now we
give them a road map of their thoughts
behaviors and emotions that that they
have lived by is that step two person
yeah you could say that step two is is
becoming conscious of your unconscious
self and then becoming conscious of a
new self Reinventing a new self and so
the person who's feeling really bad
about themselves because they're not
they're not doing anything to change
it's just
because um when you're not changing
you're still choosing uh but what you're
choosing is something that makes you
feel familiar and comfortable because
the moment you decide to change truly
get serious about change the moment you
decide to make a different choice and do
something differently you are going to
feel uncomfortable it's going to be
immediate and that's the moment you go
from the known into the unknown now if
the body has been emotionally
conditioned to be the mind like we
talked about earlier the servant is the
master and so the person who steps out
into the unknown and it feels
uncomfortable what is the body going to
say get back to
suffering get back to feeling bad get
back to feeling guilty at least that's
familiar that's known so tell a person
there's going to be a biological death
of the old self neurologically
chemically hormonally genetically
there's the old self is going to die
just know that that's going to happen
but instead of white knuckling it across
the river of change we're going to give
you something to do because that unknown
place is the perfect place to create in
so let's get you into the unknown but
let's get you there where you're relaxed
and awake
you're not escaping and if you do that
really well you're you'll be in a
creative state so you actually will be
out of survival and you'll be able to
create because you could only be in
survival or creation can't be in both so
let's get your body physiologically back
in the balance let's get it there now
who do you want to be what do you want
to believe let's review that what's a
belief a thought you keep thinking over
and over in your brain keep remembering
to think this way in your meditation how
am I going to be with my ex or my boss
let me close my eyes and think about
what greatness looks like what
forgiveness would do what love would do
let me just let me close my eyes and
mentally rehearse how I'm going to be in
that circumstance I'm going to keep
remembering to do these things so I
don't forget keep doing it over and over
again you start installing the hardware
repeat it enough times it gets like a
software program you start behaving that
way
automatically and then my goodness is it
possible to teach our body emotionally
how we do want to feel before it happens
in other words don't wait for your
wealth to feel abundant or your your
success to feel empowered or your
healing to feel wholeness that's waiting
for something in your outer World to
Change to take away the The Emptiness or
lack that you're feeling in your inner
World teach your body emotionally what
it feels like ahead of the actual
experience and the moment you start
feeling abundant you're generating
wealth the moment you can embody
empowerment you're stepping towards your
your success the moment you feel
grateful and whole be The Healing Begins
right so now you're starting to cause an
effect in your life so have the person
keep remembering to feel that way and
have them practice sooner or later
they'll start feeling that way more and
the more they feel that way the more
they'll believe in their future and some
people get so good at doing it that they
walk around feeling that emotion they
feel like their future has already
happened and when you feel like the
future has already happened you stop
looking for it and that's when the magic
starts to take place in people's lives
the synchronicities the coincidences the
opportunities they start coming to them
in their life and and that's the
reflection of their own personal
change I've seen thousands and thousands
tens of thousands of testimonials of
people saying jod sper CH changed my
life I mean I've got one at home right
got a testimonial that I live with um
I'm sorry no it's no honestly I I love
it because she's so she's probably back
there somewhere but she's so passate and
inquisitive and curious that I almost
vicariously am benefiting from the like
work and research she's doing and she's
bringing things into our relationship in
life that are making it more rich and
full and I have a certain perspective
which I wouldn't naturally go into that
world and even with breath work and the
other things that she's brought into our
relationship I wouldn't have naturally
gone there so it's super useful but
there must be instances where you've met
someone and you've tried to help them
and you've been unsuccessful of course
and
why don't those people change because
I'm assuming that you think most people
can change they have the propensity to
change why does it not work
sometimes and scientists asked me this
you know we talk about this all the time
uh sometimes uh being in such severe
lack uh of and Desperation desperation
you know uh creates a state where you
can't hear anything um because you you
don't you no new
information can enter the nervous system
that is not equal to the emotion the
person is experiencing as an ex just as
a broad understanding this is why we
don't do questions in our
events because you can give the person
the answer to the question that they're
asking you and they will not hear you
they will not hear you in fact they will
argue against you but if you get that
person out of that emotional state and
the only person that's going to do that
is them by the way get that person out
of their emotional state they can hear
that information so sometimes we're
programmed into such lack we're
programmed right to wait for something
out there to change to take away this
emptiness or lack you know when this
happens I'll feel this you know and so
when things are good in our life we feel
good and when things aren't so good in
our life we feel bad so we're kind of
victimized to the circumstances in our
life it's our outer world is controlling
our inner world of thoughts and feelings
so if the person has been programmed
into saying um I I I I I I why haven't I
healed or why hasn't this happened in my
life because the person who's saying why
haven't I healed is the old self the new
self would never say that right the new
self is too busy overcoming and becoming
right so I think people meet
information uh at their own level but
what I can tell you that is so
compelling and so
exciting is that when we get people on
the stage and it happens every event
it's it's
really quite
unbelievable to see a person stand on
the stage in front of 2300 people you
would walk right past her in the grocery
store um she doesn't look vegan she
doesn't look ketogenic she doesn't look
particularly fit or young or dressed
well you know whatever that is she just
looks like a normal person and they
stand on the stage and they tell their
story of how they were diagnosed with
cancer or um whatever the condition is
and what they did uh in their life to
change those health conditions and
there's numerous health
conditions when I look out in the
audience uh and I look at people uh
there isn't a soul in the audience that
isn't leaning in everybody is leaning in
because there's the example of Truth on
the stage and there's nothing like a
good story right so the change that
we're seeing in our community is that
there's a greater
acceptance a greater belief a greater
understanding a greater awareness to the
idea that you could actually heal
because people witness it and the person
in the audience who's seeing that person
who healed themselves from whatever
health condition it is
relates to them and they say my God if
if that person can do it I can do it as
well and just like an infection spreads
amongst the culture and creates disease
health and wellness can become as
infectious as disease right and so we
have it's not
uncommon like when that person stands on
the stage and they're the 4minute mile
if the person as Renard's syndrome we've
had events where four other people with
reard syndrome healed at the end of the
event like no longer have any symptoms
at all or we've had five people in one
event step out of a wheelchair now if
you ask me if I ever thought that was
possible I would say no so I do think uh
when a person sees that example of Truth
their awareness of possibility begins to
change and um the evidence then allows
the person to increase their own belief
uh in in themselves and
impossibility you used to add earlier on
the the word identity and I've been
pondering over the last couple of weeks
whether identity is useful cuz this is a
really trivial example but I've told
myself for a long time I don't like
running and this Christmas I decided
that it's probably important for me to
take on some of these limiting beliefs I
have so I just started running and in
doing so and going through the pain of
like Oh my legs hurt whatever I had this
sort of realization that like what other
areas of my life have I just created a
story that is closing in on me and
making my life more narrow and uh in
terms of how I think or like my health
or whatever and and so for the last
couple of weeks I've really been
thinking about this concept of identity
like what it is why we create one and
how harmful or positive it might be to
all of us yeah well look I mean I don't
I think we're all a work in progress
right I think it's an uncovering process
so I I always tell people you can be
anybody you want you can be any
character you want to be in
three-dimensional it in this in this
kind of virtual reality experience you
get to put on any character but when it
comes time to create when it comes time
to connect you got to lay down that
character you got to lay down the
identity you got to lay down that person
right and some people are have become
so uh uh idealized to their identity
that they can't be anything else and so
uh I don't think the identity is bad I
think I think as long as long as we're
able to to lay it down when we create
it's important and by the same means if
there are aspects of your personality or
your
identity that is undermining um your
life in some way uh and this happens to
so many people we see even with you know
when they're when they're getting
healings that they they their blood
values get better and then they get back
into their life and they blood values go
back up and then they get more healings
and their blood values go down and they
go back into their life and sooner or
later this goes on four or five times
they
say is it me like do I have something to
do with this and and the answer is
always yes if you if you want to take
the sign you can't take you can't take
one bite you got to actually eat the
whole thing
so so the so then what aspect of your
identity then is limiting you uh and
what is that story that you're saying to
reaffirm it to be the truth and is it
really the truth and if it's not the
truth then you got to make a decision
and you got to make a decision with such
firm intention to change that belief
that the amplitude of that choice
carries a level of energy that causes
your body to respond to your mind that
the choice that you're making in that
moment becomes a moment in time that
you'll never forget in other words you
have to say I knew exactly where I was
what I was doing what time of day it was
when I made up my mind to change right
it becomes a long-term memory and the
stronger emot the stronger the emotion
you feel when you make that choice the
more you remember the choice right and
so you can't say oh well I think I'm
going to change this kind of part of my
identity and your your body's going to
say he's lying like he's not serious
he's going to still make the same Choice
when you say this is it I don't care how
long it takes time I don't care how I
feel body I don't care what people think
of me or what's going on in my life
environment I'm going to change and you
come out of your resting state and you
make that choice you're giving your body
a taste of the future emotionally that's
what you're doing and so people who make
up their mind to change they have to
come out of their resting state and they
have to say th I'm doing this and and
that is a a strong signal in the field
so does that mean that if I do want to
change and I need that kind of escape
velocity for my old self the why the
reason must be abundantly clear
incredibly strong so if I'm in if I'm
making a New Year's resolution I'm not
going to just say listen I I want this
New Year's resolution because I think
people will think better of me if I have
it it's got to be so deep in my core and
I've got to be so clear and be able to
articulate the reason why this matters
to me for it to stand a chance yeah we
call that assigning meaning like so it's
so important to assign meaning to the
task or the act that we're uh engaging
and one of the best way to do that is to
hold that Vision or the dream of why
you're doing it I want to be healthier I
want to be more fit I want to be more
wealthy I want to be more free I want to
be more in love whatever it is the only
thing that's stopping you from being any
of those things is just a part of your
identity that has to change so that you
get there and it's nothing's mystical
about this if you said I want to be
wealthy this is your goal this is your
vision and here you are in lack the only
way you're going to get wealthy is this
person's going to have to change a lot
to find that wealth right so there's
nothing there's nothing mystical about
this we've all done it at some point in
our life where we just made up our mind
and and and what did we do when we when
we did it we got very clear like okay uh
let me remind myself what that vision is
I just got to remember why am I doing
this okay so I'm going to have to make a
different Choice let me write down those
choices I have to make I'm going to have
to start doing different things okay
what am I going to do let me remind
myself what I need to do okay why am I
doing it I'm doing for this experience
yeah I know it might hurt my legs in the
beginning or whatever it is I know it
may be a little uncomfortable I'm going
for this goal this is my goal and and
and the more we Fascinate about that
experience the more we start feeling the
emotion of that future that's when your
body what we've discovered is beginning
to biologically change because it's
starting to feel the emotion of the
future ahead of time right so that keeps
a person on the journey then we do
something really great we say what what
thoughts uh um do I want to stay away
from like I can't say I there's no way
I'm going to say I can't feel like it I
mean if you're truly committed to being
healthy and you're going to exercise you
can never say I'm too tired you can
never say I don't feel like it that's
going to cause you to not make the
choice right so it's kind of this
process where we're kind of doing that
exact thing we're actually looking at
the old identity and we're we're
reminding ourselves of who we want to
become right and and until you become it
and we discovered it's the overcoming
process that is the becoming process
when the person overcomes some belief
some behavior um some emotion when they
truly overcome it they naturally become
somebody else it's it's just a side
effect their their work in doing that
makes them love themselves more you also
have a lot of case studies of I was
reading a a lot of them from army
veterans and people that have been
through pretty horrific experience in
the Army I was reading a story of Joshua
who was a army veteran who I believe
came to one of your events and took part
in your meditation and described it in
his own words as his heart cracked wide
open yeah what happened with Joshua
because that's a good example of
personal transformation well
um we we have a program right now in the
veterans the Navy Seals special ops um
simply because there's lots of stories
like like Joshua where um you know he
was pretty much ready to give up on his
life and many of these veterans you know
they they they cope to the best of their
ability but they in the back of their
mind they have an exit plan they they
have the drugs ready they're you know
thinking about taking their life many of
them think this way and they've done uh
so many different um uh types of things
to help themselves and even even a lot
of them have done plant medicine and and
mushrooms and you know ketamine and all
kinds of things to help them but on some
level their their PTSD U wouldn't
doesn't go away and and Joshua is a
great example because he was at the very
bottom of the uh point in his life where
he was ready to give
up and you know the thing that I like to
do with veterans is to reason with them
if you have a if you have a a Navy SEAL
right and these are Elite
individuals if I tell them exactly what
will happen if they practice opening
their heart if if I say to them it's
going to reset the Baseline for trauma
in the brain they don't say how do I do
it they say yes sir like I'm going to do
I'm going to do it until it till it
happens and that's what happens to all
of these guys they're they get they're
they there's so much trauma in their
brain and body there's so much
incoherence in their nervous system
there's so many physical problems that
they're having
that they that they they they're just
really out of balance so if we if we
work with these people and give them all
the information and give them numerous
opportunities to apply it so many of
them break through and that's the moment
um their brain and body literally are no
longer connected to the memory uh or or
the emotion that keeps them in the past
and and they get recalibrated and he was
a drug addict an alcoholic a victim of
child abuse yeah and the before and
after of Joshua
dramatic yeah dramatic um again you know
we interview a lot of these veterans you
know we did we interviewed this he
didn't know anything about meditation
this guy never meditated in his life you
know he he didn't know anything about me
and know he didn't even know where he
was going this is how blind the study
was and he got there and he was just
like there's no way like I'm going to
hang out with all these people you know
he was really you know in and you know
always on guard and they asked him in
front of the camera like my goodness
like what happened and he and like he
got this is a guy that looks like a Navy
SEAL and he paused for like a
minute and he was got so emotional he
said I I got my life back I got my life
back I got every my marriage is great
again I'm in love with my kids I can
feel again I'm happy like I'm not faking
it I really feel a change you know
so that's how the vet the vet program
kind of grew through because the veteran
program was just a few vets coming that
were again injured in some way
physically or emotionally and completely
different at the end of the event
they're going to go tell their tribe
like right away like you got to do this
this really helped me so we have a
strong veteran community and you know we
have our one of our nonprofits the give
to give Foundation that works with
veterans and we create all kinds of
programs for them to heal and and we're
super proud of the results we're getting
someone like Joshua has been through so
much in their life where an objective
Observer would say it is warranted that
they might be living in a state of
victimhood how important is it to
forgive I think it's really uh one of
the fundamental things that Keep Us
Alive I mean forgiveness to me is just
overcoming the emotion that's it and
like if you overcome the emotion the
side effect of that is that your heart
will open that's exactly what happens
and when en energy moves into the heart
we start releasing different chemicals
than we when we feel angry or we feel
victimized or we feel sexual it's just a
different
chemical Elixir and oxytocin is released
and oxytocin signals nitric oxide and
nitric oxide signals another chemical
that causes the arteries in your heart
to literally dilate the heart gets
filled with energy it's engorged with
blood when that occurs the oxytocin
level lels that you're feeling the love
that you're feeling um the studies show
that when oxytocin levels are just
elevated a little bit it's really hard
to hold a grudge you just can't right so
if you're willing to
forgive and you overcome the emotion
you'll take your attention off the
person or the problem right because the
stronger the emotion we have the more we
pay attention to our problems or the
person right overcome the emotion you no
longer have your attention on that
person and in a sense you're taking
energy and you're calling it back to you
right so you're building your own field
and
so love is the Elixir that allows us to
forgive in other words you can't
say I'm going to forgive you it's uh
January 31st or February 1st remember
this day we got a thing I forgave you so
that's not like forgiveness when people
really have that feeling of pure love
where they've actually gotten over the
emotion they've already forgiven they're
like I'm totally cool I'm great you
great I'm great like so it's a side
effect of a change because if the
stronger the emotion we feel the more we
pay attention to that person uh where we
place our attention is where we place
our energy okay overcome the emotion you
no longer have your attention on that
person you're calling energy back to you
and you're building your own field and
there's energy now to heal there's
energy Now to create there's energy now
for the mystical experience and so you
can't do that if you're feeling
frustrated or if you're feeling Ang
anger if you're feeling resentment
you'll always hold the grudge you have
to convert you have to teach a person
how to get into that elevated State and
the side effect of that is forgiveness
it's not something that you have to do
it's just something that automatically
happens when we think about forgiving
people that have wronged us our dad when
we were younger that person at work you
the the boss that fired us or even
something that happened that
significantly worse it almost feels like
a justification or an acceptance of what
happened to us which makes it feel like
there's an injustice in the world like
if I forgive that person I'm letting
them off yeah do you think we should
always forgive everybody in all
circumstances yeah I think so I mean
because I mean you free yourself the
only way you're going to free yourself
from that person uh or from that past
experience is for you to literally
overcome the emotion
so um God we've all had people do really
horrible things and we've probably done
some horrible things the people as well
um but I don't think you can free
yourself or free them unless you decide
that um you know love is going to be the
thing that heals it and and God so many
people do it in our work and and the
side effect of it is that they they they
have wonderful effects in their lives
many times just healing there is a
chronic stress in society that seems to
be going in One Direction it seems to be
going up and up and up and I was
wondering if that ties into the subject
of burdens we're carrying from our past
that are keeping us elevated in ways
that are suboptimal yeah well I God I
mean what a crazy time to be alive right
now I mean there are so many things
happening in such a short amount of time
I mean it's almost overwhelming every
day there's something
happening and you know so living in
stress is living in survival the problem
with the stress hormones is that the
arousal that's created from the stress
hormones causes us uh to move into these
higher brain wave States called beta
brain wave states were aroused and the
arousal causes us to pay attention
primarily to all the things in our outer
world the arousal causes us to put our
attention on our body it causes us to
obsess and think about time and so uh
people get stuck in these uh High brain
wave States and I think the big
challenge is is if you understand that
stress is when you're knocked out of
homeostasis when your brain and body are
knocked out of balance then your
response or your reaction to people or
circumstances in your life that you're
chronically feeling on a regular basis
is actually weakening the organism
because when you turn on that emergency
system the fight ORF flight nervous
system because of the hormones of stress
and you move your body out of balance
and it has no time to recover and turn
back to balance now you're headed for
disease because no organism can live in
emergency mode for that extended period
of time the arousal creates a rush of
energy and people become
addicted to the stress hormones they
become addicted to those
emotions and so that now they need the
people and the conditions and the
circumstances and their life to reaffirm
their addiction to the emotion they need
the bad job they need the bad
relationship they need the traffic they
need the news uh just so that they can
stay uh in that emotional state so then
75 to 90% of every person that walks
into a healthcare facility in the
Western World walks in because of
emotional or psychological stress that's
the number one thing so our emotional
response uh to the conditions in our
life then becomes the important element
so people think oh my god um when I'm
emotional I I can't control my emotions
and turns out you can regulate it turns
out you can uh shorten the response uh
period from from emotions and it takes
practice right so uh you could take the
you could have the most ketogenic vegan
organic uh peptide you know whatever
intermittent fasting diet and you could
do yoga and you can do cardio and you
can do hit training and um you know
foundation training and
whatever uh get massage you know
acupuncture but if you're an emotional
wreck and you can't you know if there's
three types of stress physical chemical
and emotional then there's three types
of balance physical chemical and
emotional if you if you got your body in
physical balance and chemical balance
and you're not putting it in emotional
balance these these will never stop day
um so then the important part important
element then is teaching people how to
shorten the refractory period of their
emotional responses and catch themselves
when they're feeling those emotions and
change it and not rely on anything
outside of them to do it a video game or
a drug or whatever people do teach them
that they have the tools to do it
themselves and if they understand that
they're addicted to those emotions I've
seen this thousands of times there's
always an aha moment like
I'm addicted to anger really oh my God
maybe I am now the moment you recognize
that oh my God I'm using that person to
reaffirm my addiction to anger oh my God
like I don't want to I don't want to
feel anger okay well an addiction is
something that you think you can't stop
an addiction is uh doing something that
you know isn't good for you and you're
doing it anyway right so these emotions
are addictive then I'm going to probably
go through withdrawals I've probably
overdosed a few times I've probably had
a couple bad trips okay so let me get
really clear like how am I going to
change this so if to change is to be
greater than your body your environment
and time when you live in stress and you
live in survival all your attention is
on your body your environment and time
it means when we're living in stress
it's really hard to change MH because
it's not a time to change it's time to
run fight and hide right so so teaching
people how to break those emotional
addictions um is the side effect of that
is called Joy a person is no longer
tormenting their body in keeping it out
of balance and many people who heal in
this work they don't say oh I'm going to
I'm going to heal this health condition
they'll say the first thing I'm going to
do and this is the majority of them is
I'm going to work on getting my body
back into homeostasis like I'm going to
work on regulating my emotional states
I'm not going to react in this way I'm
not going to respond this
way that's the work right there is
breaking those emotional addictions so
that we can move out of survival uh and
in survival it's not a time to create in
survival it's not a time to meditate
it's not a time to close your eyes and
go within you'd be eaten it's not a time
to be vulnerable it's not a time to open
your heart right and yet we got to work
with our bodies and be able to to
recondition them to a new mind and and
so a lot of the work that we do
especially during this time in history
where everybody's feeling the the um the
pressure the environmental pressure of
stress is to give people the tools to be
able to self-regulate and when I mean
self-regulate that means move from one
emotional state to another emotional
state and it's not bad that we react we
all react I react but the question is
how long like how long are you going to
react for because um if you keep doing
it uh for months or years It ultimately
becomes your personality right yeah and
it has a big impact on your immune
system I've noticed that when I'm in a
state of prolonged reaction negative
reaction to something it only takes a
couple more days for me to get a flu or
a cold or something and I H like because
I don't get sick often so I think I get
sick kind of like I am now maybe twice a
year and so it's very easy it's almost
like a shock and then it's very easy for
me to trace my steps and see what
brought me here so this happened my
response was
this 8 days later I felt my immune
system go cuz I get sick so rarely it's
so unbelievably clear what happened to
me there's no like oh I I touched
something and then the germs got in my
mouth for me it's so clear in my life so
yeah that's kind of what I I want to do
is I want to stop that happening yeah
well look how old are you I'm 32 32 my
God you're doing great I mean if you
figure this out now by the time you're
40 you'll you'll have it mastered um so
we did a study where we had people stop
feeling survival
emotions uh for 3 days and have them
practice feeling elevated emotions
heart- centered emotions we measured uh
a chemical called IGA immunoglobuline a
it's your body's natural flu shot it's
actually better than a flu shot and uh
and so we measured people's IGA levels
at the beginning of this time and then
we measured them at the end at the end
of 3 Days by trading those limited
emotions for more elevated emotions
their IG a levels went up 50% 50% so so
when you're feeling an elevated emotion
the body is so objective that it's
believing it's living in an nurturing
and loving environment if the
environment signals the Gene and it does
and the end product of an experience in
the environment is an emotion that
person is signaling genes ahead of the
environment that's and now the body is
going to make globulins which are
proteins that are going to create more
internal defense and uh uh uh and less
and less uh attention on external
defense so the immune system then which
is the internal protection system begins
to move back into order if you're
looking to take the next step in your
Tech Career you'll want to hear about
our sponsor Inuit I've always believed
that if you want to do your best work
you have to put yourself in the right
environment you want to work with the
best you want to work with the best
technologists who are leading Innovation
with data and Ai and this is what you
can expect into it they're growing their
Tech careers building an aid driven
expert platform
that connects people to all the money
they deserve The Cutting Edge Tech they
are developing in products like Turbo
Tax Credit Karma QuickBooks and
MailChimp are helping around a 100
million customers and businesses put
more money in their Pockets having a
mission-driven culture is something I
really align with because it's all about
solving complex customer problems with
rapid experimentation to move faster
quite similar to the culture I want to
Foster at my companies if this sounds
like you and you want to grow your Tech
Career working alongside the best check
out intuit.com careers they also offer
hybrid work and a very inclusive culture
with offices in Atlanta New York San
Diego the Bay Area Toronto and around
the world head over to in nit t/c
careers to explore their
opportunities what about routine in all
of this is there value in having a
strong
routine because then when the winds blow
at least I'm anchored by something yeah
I try to avoid that word because I think
it conjures up a lot of beliefs for
people I I think I I'd like to say if
you can set aside a certain amount of
time for yourself just for yourself to
be alone with yourself and for me um my
routine is to have two hours in the
morning that's just my time like that's
my time where I'm going to get my brain
and body right it's a time where I'm
going to think about the things I have
to do in the day and how I'm going to to
be in my in my day get that all clear
then I do my meditation and my
meditation is really uh for me to
overcome myself uh and change and then
create and I you know I don't care if
you do it in the morning or in the
evening I'm a morning person I've always
been a morning person I have friends
that are that are artists and musicians
even my kids they're just more even
evening people they just they're
creative so they like the evening
doesn't matter to me I just pick a time
in your day where you can think about
who you want to be and who you no longer
want to be and think about what you're
going to change and and you know always
make a little room for the unknown which
is the fun part and and get creative
yeah and so and our that's one of the
things I'm proud of in in our community
I'm really proud of the fact that people
do the work like everybody does the work
it's not like I have to make them do it
and when I ask them like why like why do
you do it every day aside from the
majority of saying it makes me feel
better they typically say I don't want
the magic to end like there's too many
good things too many good things going
on in my life like I want to keep doing
this it's working for me so it's kind of
not like I have to it's a want to you
talked earlier on about brain heart
coherence it's a term that I've not
heard before I didn't know that there
was a connection between my brain and my
heart oh there's a definite connection
between your brain and heart yeah so we
were so fascinated this was uh February
of 2020 I'll never forget it we we
started and our when we were doing our
electroencephalograms you know our brain
studies um we we put a a cardiac lead
from the heart uh uh to the machine and
we started looking at HRV in comparison
to brain waves and coherence is rhythm
right so when waves are kind of moving
in Rhythm like this you can you can see
that on the brain scan right they're
these yeah they're very orderly they're
very rhythmic like that so so if you
think of waves that are Co
coherent being very orderly and being
very rhythmic
um when they're when they're out of
order like choppy and they different
parts of the brain are in different
rhythms that's when the brain's
incoherent right and and so when we
started looking at um training people
how to broaden their awareness to sense
space when you're sensing space the act
of sensing and feeling causes you to
stop analyzing and thinking and if
you're not analyzing and thinking you
start suppressing neocortical activity
your brain waves start to slow down in
beta you know you're aware that you're a
body local in space and time that's
low-level beta like we're talking right
now we're in low-level beta if I said
Stephen I'm going to give you a quiz um
and you're going to have to take the
quiz in front of your audience and you
would kind of perk up a little bit your
brain would get a little bit more
aroused and the light bulb would get a
little brighter and You' move into
mid-range Vader that's like when you're
going to give a speech or you're at a
dinner and you don't know people you're
kind of you kind of be a little bit more
aware just for people that can't see
this because they might be listening on
audio so beta is uh conscious awareness
now in beta the the brain is trying to
create meaning between what's going on
in the outer world and what's going on
in the inner world and it's processing
all the sensory information so a lot of
data so beta is like conscious and awake
and so there's low-level beta there's
mid-range beta it's not on this chart
but high level beta is when you're
fearful when you're anxious when you're
angry when you're in pain when you're
frustrated when you're jealous whatever
uh people get switched on in these high
levels of beta and that's when we get
overfocused you ever been under stressed
and you start over focusing that's
because you're you're you're narrowing
your focus and you're over focusing and
that's kind of a brain State and so when
you broaden your awareness and instead
of narrow your focus on something
physical or material that's what the
stress hormones do but if you broaden
your awareness and you sense space and
you this act of sensing causes you to no
longer analyze and think and your brain
waves start to move into Alpha now in
Alpha which is this brain wave is a
slower brain wave state that's the
creative state of the brain the brain
sees more in pictures more in images
it's more imaginary right in beta
there's a voice talking to you in the
back of your head all the time saying
this is right and this is wrong you got
this to do you got that to do that's the
critic kind of in our brain when you
when you get Beyond beta brain waves and
you move into Alpha you start opening
the door between the conscious mind and
the subconscious mind now we're not just
looking for any type of alpha but we're
looking for coherent Alpha so we want
all those compartments that we're firing
in different rhythms and different
frequencies all of a sudden start doing
this so now the whole entire brain
starts moving into what's called Global
coherence now when the brain starts
synchronizing like that what sinks in
the brain starts to link in the brain
and the whole brain starts to fire as
one neurological Network and that's what
our data shows now that's not the end
that's just when you're moving into an
imaginary State and people do this but
but a lot of people move into Alpha but
it's not coherent so we're looking for a
coherent Alpha
now many of the people that are
meditating really well they can relax
their body so well and they can feel so
safe that their body moves into a light
rest or a light sleep while they're
still awake so it's relaxed and awake in
that realm you're in a hypnotic State
you're in feta brain waves and in Theta
now lights are shut out in the thinking
Neo cortest that plugs us into
three-dimensional reality the identity
is gone the character is gone there's no
activity there now the door between the
conscious mind and the subconscious mind
is wide open to information and now
we're suggestible to information and now
we're in the operating system we can get
in the subconscious mind and rewrite a
program we could rehearse a new script
we can tell a new story instead of the
story of the past we can tell the story
of our future and we can Pro program our
subconscious mind and our autonomic
nervous system to begin to change our
biology now go too far past Theta and
you fall into Delta and now lights are
out you're in a catatonic State and
you're unconscious right and so we kind
of do this when we go to bed at night we
go from beta to Alpha Theta to Delta and
if you're under stress and you're in
high beta you can't sleep and you can't
sleep because you're thinking right and
you can't drop through brain waves when
you wake up in the morning you go from
Delta to the Theta to Alpha to Beta
right so there's two times that the door
between the conscious mind and the
subconscious mind opens up okay what
does this have to do with brain and
heart coherence well in Theta when a
person is in that state where their
attention is on their
heart and energy is in their heart it's
natural for the heart to tell the brain
to get creative it's time to imagine
it's time to fall in love with a future
now the heart is the creative center
right right it's the it's the part of
the our biology that that allows the
brain to begin the frontal lobe to begin
to create so you get the heart and the
Brain kind of working together the more
relaxed you get in your heart the more
awake you get in the brain Something
Beautiful happens in the brain if the
person can sustain this and they're in
that Theta State Theta becomes the
carrier wave and right within the brain
you start to see Alpha Waves building on
theta waves and then alpha waves in
harmonics into beta waves and harmonics
into high beta and then High beta
ultimately into gamma and now the person
is
relaxed and very awake because gamma is
superconsciousness it is super awareness
so the the formula of being relaxed and
awake and synchronizing your heart to
your brain causes the brain to move into
a state of what's called resonance and
resonance is when you have w waves on
top of waves harmonics and the Brain
starts functioning in a more resonance
State sometimes even people have Delta
as the base carrying Theta and Theta
carrying Alpha and Alpha carrying beta
to high beta to gamma and they're all
waves within waves and as those waves
come together if they're if they're
coherent they interfere and create a
bigger wave and then those waves come
together and they interfere and they
create bigger waves and that's exactly
how the energy in the brain goes up so
we have brain scans of people who whose
gamma brain waves are 200 300 400
standard deviations outside of normal
I'm going give you an idea three
standard deviations outside of normal is
2% of the population so they're they're
processing an enormous amount of energy
in their brain and it feels really good
really good so we practice a lot
synchronizing the heart to the brain if
you do like MDMA or something does that
put you into some of these brain waves
I'm wondering if any psychedelics are
inducing of these states we're going to
do a comparative study actually um this
year with psychedelics and meditation I
can I can answer that question more
definitively what we do know from fmri
studies with
psilocybin is that the default mode
Network in the brain the one I was
talking about earlier that's always the
brain's
predictor that that shuts off in a in a
with with a psilocybin and that's
exactly what we see in our our our
Advanced meditators and our fmis
that those people that are having a
mystical experience right in the
MRI looks like they're taking psilocybin
the same exact the same exact brain
circuits are turned off on this um Theta
wave you talking about how that's really
where a lot of the reprogramming can
happen so do I need to be in that state
and then be exposed to some kind of
stimulus sound good question good
question um well I'll answer in three
ways first way is when you're conscious
in your subconscious mind and you're
trained to imagine whatever it is that
you want you're going to begin to Signal
your autonomic nervous system to start
manufacturing chemicals equal to your
intention in other words the intention
of whatever you're thinking about acts
as information that begins to change
your biology so Theta is a great way to
open up the door
we also use Theta um when we want to
program people because it's a hypnotic
state to a mystical experience and if
they're in that state remember when
you're suggestible you accept believe
and surrender to information as if it's
the truth without analyzing it and
that's what programs people's biology
right so you can program somebody into
believing they need a drug and you can
program somebody to believing in just
about anything but you could also
program them for a mystical experience
and that's what we do now so we can do
that by giving them information when
they're in that hypnotic state they're
very suggestible but we're only going to
do it in a way that's going to be
beneficial to them and then the Third
Way is something that we really
discovered that we weren't
expecting let's see how I can say this
and make it
simple um there's particle and wave
there's matter and energy and so if your
all of your attention is on this
three-dimensional World um you're you're
unaware of energy so have a person close
their eyes and take their attention off
of everything physical everything
material everything known and go from a
narrow Focus to a broadened focus and as
they sense the space they're actually
putting their attention on that
invisible field of energy that exists
beyond our senses the quantum field
right and that field is carrying an
enormous amount of information so when a
person moves into Theta and I ask them
to open their awareness if they're in a
certain range of theta we can just about
predict 100% of the time that that
person is going to connect to
information now not information coming
from their senses like a hypnotist could
put you in a trans and Theta and give
you suggestions and you could program
you but you're still in the same state
that hypnotic state but your eyes are
closed there's music playing in the
background you're not eating you're not
tasting you're not smelling you're not
feeling with your body but you're still
suggestible to information there's only
one other place you can find information
and that's
frequency and frequency carries
information so when a person starts to
connect to energy to frequency and the
thinking neocortex is dialed down the
moment they connect to that energy and
frequency the brain goes into these very
very high states of gamma brain wave
patterns they're connecting to a greater
level of energy a greater level of order
and they arousal that's felt when they
have this
connection which is normally typically
fear or anger or pain the arousal is
ecstasy the arousal is bliss that's the
they say I don't have the words to
describe the feeling that I just had
right so they're dipping Closer To
Source they're dipping closer to a
greater energy and frequency and it's
being reflected in their biology when we
see people move into these elegant
states of high gamma it's primarily in
their autonomic nervous system it's very
fast and it's very coherent now if
stress is autonomic
disregulation and they're functioning in
a very very high energetic state in
their autonomic nervous system coherent
gamma brain waves then there's an
enormous amount of autonomic regulation
and the autonomic nervous system
controls and coordinates all other
systems now watch watch out because now
the tuning fork is sending information
to every cell and tissue and organ in
the body and when people move into these
states many times when they come back
they get a biological upgrade somehow
Energy starts to inform matter and the
whole body is lifted by light by lifted
by frequency when we when we draw the
blood from people who who have these
kind of moments we look for information
in the blood
there's information in the blood that
we've discovered that stops the covid
virus from entering the cell we've
isolated the protein that inhibits the
virus from entering the cell in other
words we've done the studies called
adoptive transfers we've taken Advanced
meditators blood and we've put it in U a
culture with A2 receptors cells that
have A2 receptors and then expose the A2
receptor to the to a pseudovirus like a
CO virus
and in advanced meditators we noticed
that the virus couldn't enter the cell
it was stuck to the outside of the cell
and we isolated a protein in the
advanced meditator blood that inhibits
the virus from entering the
cell those people that have those
transcendental moments as I said 84% of
them 84% of them have information in
their blood that causes the
mitochondrial function and glycolytic
function in cancer cells to shut off
there's information in the blood for
neurogenesis uh for um the microbiome
completely changed at the end of 7 Days
completely different microbiome uh
without changing their diet at all
they're still eating the same food but
they're not the same person right
there's some kind of change that creates
a lot of probiotic microbes I remember
reading a study of um whm Hof the ican
where they injected him with a virus and
I think they injected other people with
the virus and through his breath work
and meditations and whatever else he did
the virus didn't infect him but it
infected the other people and then I
think in the study they he trained other
people to be able to reject the virus as
well and all of this kind of sounds a
little bit woooo to the average person
because to think that you can do
something to prevent a virus infecting
you I mean it blows the doors open to
like personal responsibility and yes of
course you know which is yeah troubling
for people I think yeah well we
published the paper um it got published
in a scientific journal um people can
see it online um well if you keep
practicing being greater than your
environment you'll be greater than your
environment that's that's just how it is
in other words if your response to your
environment doesn't weaken you but
strengthens you then the innate
intelligence of your body will have an
intelligence that will cause you to be
greater than your environment right down
to the microb and that is where you keep
referencing the term advanced meditator
cuz you don't say normal meditators well
what I will say is I'll say well it's
kind of funny when I use that term I can
only use that term because many people
that come to our weekl long Retreats
Stephen they're they're novices they've
never really meditated before their
spouse or their boyfriend or girlfriend
brought them or their co-work or their
friend or you know they're just kind of
like whatever you know I don't really
know what I'm getting myself
into the novice meditator who just kind
of practices a little bit that goes
through the immersive experience at the
end of s days their brains look like
Advanced meditators at the end of seven
days their biology their blood values
look like they've been meditating for
years in other words at the end of seven
days those Advanced medit those
meditators that were novice meditators
that look like Advanced meditators are
upregulating thousands of genes in their
biology to suggest that they're living
in a whole new life a whole new
environment and they're in a ballroom
and there's nothing very stimulating
about a ballroom so whatever they're
doing inside of them inside of
themselves somehow is causing dramatic
changes now we looked at we looked at a
group of people we looked at their
genotype and genes make proteins and
your gene expression is different than
mine different than every single person
so everybody has their own unique
genotype which means they all make their
own individual proteins at the end of
seven days when we looked at those
meditators at the end of seven days
almost 80% of the
population was making the same genes and
the same proteins they were signaling
the same genes and making the same
proteins what does that mean that means
when people behave in the same way
there's an emergent Consciousness that
comes forth that's reflected in people's
biology the flock the herd the tribe
everybody's evolving together
biologically at these Retreats these
7-Day retreats one of the things I was
pretty shocked by was the amount of time
people spend
meditating yeah how long do people spend
meditating and why is that
important our events are a spiritual
Rave I me that's the best way I can
describe it I mean we start at 6:00 in
the morning and we finish at 700 or 8 at
night and the days go by extremely fast
there's standing and walking meditations
we do sometimes four or five of them
sometimes six at a weekl long event why
because you got to embody you got to get
really good at doing it with your eyes
open um we do laying down meditations
after we get people to a certain point
where I know they're not going to fall
asleep when they lay down and so and
then we do some big uh meditations that
are that are a little bit more longer
but people are up and down the whole
entire time none of the
meditations will ever be done without
knowledge beforehand because knowledge
is the precursor uh to the
experience so so it's it's an immersive
experience um yeah turns out to be about
35 hours of meditation when it's all
said and done but you ask anybody who
does a weeklong event they'll say I'm so
I have I can't wait to get back into my
life and start my practice because I
what I was doing when I got here was
nothing like I'm doing now right so now
they're more equipped and really they're
they're kind of in a different body
they're walking back into a new life and
you know they're they're not on the same
line of time any longer that's the
experience that I can
profess to be true in my own
relationship and life because my partner
came back from the medit the meditations
she came back from the week in Miami
where she was doing the walking
meditations down the beach and so on and
it didn't stop there in fact that was
really the start of her journey because
every morning now she has this new
routine where she meditates in the
morning and no one's telling her to do
that but clearly the benefit has been so
great for her that that she's continued
the the the practice and she does it
every day it's I'm like I'm so amazed by
it because it takes a
there must like it takes a certain I was
going to say the word discipline but
it's not discipline because if you're so
clear on the the benefit of an action
you don't necessarily need like
discipline it's just clearly done so
much for her that she's continued to do
it thereafter and it's funny because
obviously she she came back from it I
was supposed to attend I had a Visa
issue she came back from it and told me
about the process and her recounting it
like objectively you go God that must
have been hard and uncomfortable or that
must have been whatever but her
experience was very much the opposite it
was joyous it was filling she came back
so unbelievably obsessed with this new
set of sort of systems and information
that could better her life and it's
really it's really profound like you can
hear it on a podcast but then when you
kind of witness it in someone someone
you know well in love it's incredibly
persuasive yeah well that I mean that's
what I want I want people to walk out
into their life and not say you need to
shorten the refractory period of your
emotional responses you need to forgive
you need to get your brain or heart
coherent I don't I don't want anybody in
my work to do that I want them to walk
out into the world and be the example so
so much so that people go what what's
what's what's up with you you're
different like I you know you're you
seem different you know what is it you
know and that's when I think the real
conversation starts
so that's a that's that it's
instrumental when it becomes
instrumental and you apply it to your
life and it's working for you is it's
not a have to as I said it's something
that you really enjoy doing and uh wow
what what a crazy Sovereign idea that
you could actually make yourself happy
what a crazy idea when you when you hit
those gamma moments where you feel a
level of love you have never felt in
your entire life by connecting the
source which is pure love and you stop
looking for it outside of you you start
realizing it's within you that's a big
moment right because then you won't you
won't need anybody or anything that's
that's Freedom that's unconditional love
right you'll get out of want use that
that time a few times yeah yeah I mean
like like want like we we've been
trained to create based on lack that's
what we do in threedimensional reality
in threedimensional reality you see
someone that that has a sports car and
you don't have one and you like that
sports car all of a sudden you want that
sports car your brain starts creating
based on lack of of not having it you
see a someone in a scarf and you like
that scarf and next thing you know
you're wearing that scarf your brain
imagines you having it right but the way
we get it in threedimensional reality is
we have to do something this is the
plane of demonstration so then when we
finally get the scarf and we finally get
the car the experience of getting the
car produces the emotion that takes away
the lack or separation of not having it
so some people spend their whole life in
lack waiting for the thing to come
around to take away the the feeling of
lack or separation right my message is
not that my message is actually to
create in a different way in such a way
that you feel like it has already
happened now the power behind all of
that is that the person now who's who's
who's in that state where they're
feeling like the event has already
happened they no longer want it because
they're feeling the emotion what how
could they they wouldn't be looking for
it you only look for it when you
experience lack if you feel like it's
already happened you're no longer
separate from it and we cannot attract
anything in our life we feel separate
from and so feeling that emotion somehow
starts to draw
things to us and now we're not having to
do anything and things are starting to
come to us that's the synchronicities
that's the coincidences that's the
opportunities we're not doing anything
they're coming to us and that's so so
you can't when you create from that
Quantum field instead of from
matter you can't create from lack
because the thought of your wealth in
the quantum produces the feeling of
abundance the thought of your wealth and
three-dimensional reality for many
people produ is the lack of not having
it so the in the quantum there's a whole
different set of rules and and it's not
something that you know you learn right
away it's you learn from trial and error
so so then when we create truly create
in the act of creation and we are
creating from the field instead of from
matter to shorten the distance between
the thought of what we want and
experience of having it the only way
that we can do that is we can't create
from lack so in the creative process we
create from wholeness my conern when I
hear that is well Jo if I no longer want
if I no longer live in a state of want
am I going to have the motivation to get
up and go because I look at my life and
go well it was your creating from a
place of lack that motivated you to
start a podcast and to start run
businesses and do all of these things
and get a car and whatever else no I'm
not disputing that I think I think you
do that for a while you do that for a
while and I I always tell people I don't
care what you want to create I just want
you to get really good at creating I
don't care if it's I don't care what it
is wealth I don't care what it is car
you know whatever it is vacations houses
I don't care just get good at creating
but sooner or later that the novelty
will wear off on all of that and you you
you'll want to know that on some level
there's more
so so you we always desire things we
always want things but when we're in the
creative process we cannot create from
the lack of not having it we have to
create from the feeling of having it
right and so in the quantum you got to
feel it to experience
it this one change has transformed how
my team and I move train and think about
our bodies when doctor Daniel Lieberman
came on the DI of CEO he explained how
modern shoes with their cushioning and
support are making our feet weaker and
that's capable of doing what nature
intended them to do we've lost the
natural strength and mobility in our
feet and this is leading to issues like
back pain and knee pain I'd already
purchased a pair of Viva barefoot shoes
so I showed them to Daniel liberman and
he told me that they were exactly the
type of shoe that would help me restore
natural foot movement and rebuild my
strength but I think it was plti fitis
that I had where suddenly my feet
started hurting all the time and after
that I decided to start strengthening my
own foot by using the Viva Barefoot and
research from Liverpool university has
backed this up they've shown that
wearing Vivo barefoot shoes for 6 months
can increase foot strength by up to
60% visit Vivo
barfoot.co.nz /
doac use code do ac20 a strong body
starts with strong feet quick one I want
to talk to you about our sponsor whoop a
business I'm also an investor in and if
you follow me on Instagram you probably
noticed that recently I've picked up
running which I'm very much enjoying and
it started out as a challenge but it's
now evolved into something I do almost
daily it is one of those things that's
pushing me to be better every single day
but here's the thing to me progress
isn't just about pushing harder it's
also about training in a smarter way
which is where my whoop comes in whoop
doesn't just track my workouts it tells
me how ready my body is to take them on
before I've even started the workout a
few years ago we ran a study called
project PR and it found that Runners who
adjusted their training based on their
recovery scores improved their 5K times
by an average of 2 minutes and 40
seconds while reducing injury Risk by
over 30% and they did it while training
less so if you're looking for this type
of guidance when it comes to your train
training head over to join. woop.com CEO
and get a 30-day trial with zero
commitment that's join. woop.com
let me know how you get
on when you say in the quantum oh I was
hoping you wouldn't
go oh God because people are going to
hear you say that and they're going to
say I wonder what he means by the
quantum okay the
probability that we're perceiving the
truth of
reality is
zero that that there's
more
information in the inmaterial than
there'll ever be in the
material and that information that
exists in the inmaterial that the the
senses cannot perceive the senses can
only perceive three-dimensional reality
objects and things and places and people
and
bodies there's an invisible field of
energy the the atom is both particle
matter and wave or energy right but all
we see is the material element and the
atom is
99.999999% information and energy and
0000000000
1% matter so the brain has been shaped
and molded from Generations Untold in
living in Survival by narrowing our
focus on the material world the stress
hormones heighten our senses and when we
our senses are heightened we become
materialist so live in survival for
thousands and thousands of years energy
is not important when you're being
chased by
T-Rex uh energy is not important when
you're looking for food right you got to
narrow your focus and and so the brain
cannot perceive energy or frequency so
what we're seeing is really symbols or
just out picturing of the most stable
form of energy called matter and our
senses collapse it into what appears to
be
material but the quantum field is that
other field of energy and information
that exists beyond our senses Beyond
this material world whose signature is
Oneness his signature is wholeness who
signature is connection whose signature
is love pure love and so if you spend
your whole life with all of your
attention on your body your environment
and time all of your attention is in
this three-dimensional reality then you
got to play by the rules and the rules
are Newtonian physics you got to predict
everything it's going to take time and
energy for you to get everything you
want in your life okay you can get
really good at that you can get really
good you can get skilled you can get
trained you can get coached you can
learn you can go to school you can learn
from your mistakes you can gather a lot
of things you get really good at
that but is there another way to create
okay well Einstein said the field the
wave the energy is the sole governing
agency of the particle energy controls
matter he didn't say the particle
controls the particle he said the field
control controls the particle if you
change the information in the field can
you change the projection the particle
in three dimensional reality this is a
holographic Universe okay so if the if
the quantum field is an invisible field
of energy that exists beyond our senses
beyond our body our environment and time
then the only way we are going to
connect to it is take all of our
attention off our body all of our
attention off the environment what's the
environment made of people objects
things places and and take all of your
attention off of linear time the
predictable future and the familiar past
and find The Sweet Spot of the generous
present moment that's the unknown that's
the door that's the moment you become
nobody no one no thing nowhere no time
that is the moment you are pure
Consciousness and it's no different than
me saying to
you stay alive I'm going to take away
your eyesight I'm going to take away
your hearing I'm going to take away your
smell I'm going to take away your taste
I'm going to take away you feeling with
your body and if I take away all of your
senses who are you your Consciousness
right your Consciousness consciousness
of what nothing nothing but what you and
the act of becoming conscious of nothing
and becoming nobody no one no thing
nowhere and no time is the eye of the
needle and that is the moment you're
walking through the door to the quantum
field and when you walk through that
door the game changes it's all energy
it's all frequency it's all vibration
it's all connected it's all thought it's
all Consciousness it's all information
right and so you got to train your brain
like when you pass through you're not
you any longer you're not your body any
longer you're your body here your pure
Consciousness and that void or that
vacuum or that nothing whatever you want
to call that is rich in frequency and
energy so have people linger there
without a name without a skin color
without a gender without a diet without
a face without a past without a social
security number without a profession
without being a mother father a kid
linger there as pure Consciousness lay
the the character down and get
comfortable in nothing in the
unknown okay now that you're there if
it's all frequency and it's all energy
then the next thing we have to do then
is get our brain coherent because
thought is the electrical charge it's
the impulse in the quantum field and the
feeling the elevated emotion is the
magnetic charge if you take a thought
and a feeling an image and an emotion a
vision of the future with a coherent
brain and a coherent heart you got a
whole new Wi-Fi signal now you're
broadcasting new information into the
field and you're connected to this field
keep changing the information in the
field you're going to change the destiny
of your experience in matter and so we
teach people how to get to that place
get their brains and hearts coherent and
learn how to create by changing the
information in the field to ultimately
create the experience they want in three
dimensional reality and when there's a
vibrational match between their energy
and some potential in the quantum field
and they're creating from the source of
everything physical why would they go
anywhere to get it if you're the source
you would draw to you so then creating
from the field instead of from
matter can literally shorten the
distance between the thought of what you
want and the experience of having it
instead of going and having to do
something to get it it starts coming to
you and that's another way to create and
again it all starts with getting out of
the future in the past and into the the
overcoming process the first couple days
is Val more valuable than all the gold
in the world for people though they'll
say oh my God I had such a terrible
story I had such a belief oh my God I
just I was so addicted to those emotions
they'll tell you and they just have you
just have to sit with yourself long
enough to no longer want to feel that
way and we just give people the tools to
get them from the old self to the new
self to cross that River it's quite
compelling idea that I might be addicted
to negative emotions or emotions that
aren't productive to me in any way even
that as an idea well take the idea like
this if you were angry right now or you
were feeling sad and I came up to you
and I said Hey Stephen listen I know
you're really miffed right now I know
you're feeling really down whatever um
but just
stop just stop getting just stop being
there just stop if you can't stop that
then on some level you must be addicted
to it right if you if you truly were not
addicted to it you would be able to just
turn it off right so so when people
start to see that they're like oh my god
um yeah I could be addicted to that it's
a good moment for people what's it doing
for me well the long-term effects of
doing that I mean we can turn on the
stress response just by thought alone
you could think about your problems and
you could produce the same chemistry as
if it was
real the long-term effects of the
hormones of stress down regul genes and
create disease and if you can turn on
that stress response just by thought
alone that means your thoughts can make
you sick if I know it's bad for me like
no one wants to feel sad so why am I
choosing to feel sad there's nothing
wrong with feeling sad it's just how
long you want to stay there or angry or
fearful I don't want to feel that yeah
so again here we go trial and error you
got to catch yourself and you got to go
because because when you're feeling sad
as an example or you're feeling angry or
whatever
for the most part uh you want to stay
there many people like it's just
comfortable it's it's some people find a
lot of comfort in being unhappy they're
really happy being unhappy so so if you
want to evolve your experience in life
you would say I can change this I
literally can change it let me sit down
and change my emotional state if this
emotion is causing me me to view my
reality through the lens of the past if
this reality is downregulating my genes
and creating disease if this reality
feeling this emotion is causing me to
behave as if I'm in a past reality if a
feeling this emotion causes me to
believe in my past more than my future H
maybe it's not s such a good idea that I
stay there so so Justified or
not valid or not the only person that
that emotion is affecting is you sooner
or later I think when people start
realizing I can change my emotional
state and they really sit down even
though they don't want to do it they do
it that's when they start feeling a lot
of worth Joe what is the most important
question based on all of your work and
all that you do and all that you're
thinking about at this exact moment and
the subject of change and transformation
that I should have asked you
oo is it possible that the human nervous
system the autonomic nervous system
manufactures a pharmacy of chemicals
that works better than any drug
is it possible that the human nervous
system
manufactures a pharmacy of chemicals
that works better than any drug Joe the
answer is absolutely yes that's what our
data shows and it's not pseudo science
our data shows that the autonomic
nervous system can manufacture a
pharmacy of chemicals that works better
than any drug a drug trial is about uh
uh 25% effective one out of four people
have a response and it's normally over a
length of time 60 to 90 days
what our data shows is
that
75 as I said 84 90 95 100% of the people
that are involved in a 7-Day event have
these effects so even if it's
75% that means it's working three times
better than any drug and yet your
nervous system is manufacturing those
chemicals equal to the person's state of
being equal to their intention and and I
keep telling I keep asking the scien is
where are those chemicals coming from
the person's not eating a pill they're
not changing their diet they're not
doing anything and yet what wasn't there
before the event somehow is there after
the event it's coming from within us is
that because of some of the sort of
techniques and the processes you go
through at the event is it because of
the connect of a group of people coming
together and synchronizing and the
oxytocin is it all of the above it's all
of the above I mean almost 80% of the
people expressing the same genes and
making the same proteins that's unheard
of what we discovered is people change
people that's what we disc we discovered
that Collective networks of observers
determine reality and it's not the
number of people it's not the amount of
energy it's the most coherence that
takes place in the in the group and so
we're doing studies now with with
Collective networks we're doing studies
and measuring the effects of collective
Consciousness what does that do uh uh in
terms of field effects and and energy
when you say all of this and you talk
about this relationship between the body
and the mind it um it keeps making me
wonder about your beliefs of a higher
power or a God because it all sounds I
mean the more and more I learn about the
body and how interconnected it is it all
sounds just mystical it's the only way
to describe it so I wondered as you were
speaking I wrote down on my a lipad here
I said does Joe believe in God I do I do
I think there's one God but in that one
there's many yeah what is that mean that
means that means that God Lives within
you the Divine lives in every human
being that's what I believe and I think
it's really important for people to make
time for it to connect to it to fall in
love with it to stay aware of it to
bring it into their life by staying
aware of it and connecting to it and I
think the more we interact with it I
think the more it becomes us and the
more we become it and so removing the
veils the blocks the emotions the habits
the blind spots that stand in our way
between our connection to that unifying
field or God or the absolute or the
Creator or universal mind or Source or
Singularity the zero point field the
fertile void whatever you want to call
it the motherf father principle making
time to interact with it by removing the
things that stand in the way between us
and it allows us to get closer to love
right and I think that's what God is so
the expression of the
Divine the expression of God through the
human being would be a a person that's
more conscious more mindful more willful
more loving uh um um more giving that's
the nature of the Divine so its nature
becomes our nature right so I do believe
that um we're not linear beings living a
linear life I believe that we're
dimensional beings living a dimensional
life and and I do believe in that
Universal uh mind that Universal Power
and and making time to use it and to
interact with it and connect with it and
to reach for it and to become it um I
think it's a worthy Journey for people
thank you so much for the work that you
do it's a perfect sort of combination of
all the things that I think I care about
but also I think my audience care about
and if they are looking to go deeper
Beyond this podcast I would highly
recommend them trying to get a ticket to
one of your events very hard to get
tickets to your events so good luck to
you but I would highly recommend they go
to your website and they can see a full
list of events that you have coming up
there because it can be um from as I've
learned from my partner truly
transformational in ways that maybe will
surprise them if you can find I'm
reinviting you I need to do it it's been
been something on my mind you should
just come just for fun you I promised
you'd have the best week of your life I
know I know I just see the I see the
impact you had on M my girlfriend and I
just I'm jealous of it it's the best way
to describe it nice I am jealous of it
thank you so much good kind of
jealousy the hardest conversations are
often the ones we avoid but what if you
had the right question to start them
with every single guest on the DI of CEO
has left behind a question in this diary
and it's a question designed to
challenge to connect and to go deeper
with the next guest and these are all
the questions that I have here in my
hand on one side you've got the question
that was asked the name of the person
who wrote it and on the other side if
you scan that you can watch the person
who came after who answered it 51
questions split across three different
levels the warm-up level the openup
level and the Deep level so you decide
how deep the conversation goes and
people play these conversation cards in
boardrooms at work in bedrooms alone at
night and on first dates and everywhere
in between I'll put a link to the
conversation cards in the description
below and you can get yours at the
diary.com
this has always blown my mind a little
bit 53% of you that listen to the show
regularly haven't yet subscribed to the
show so could I ask you for a favor if
you like the show and you like what we
do here and you want to support us the
free simple way that you can do just
that is by hitting the Subscribe button
and my commitment to you is if you do
that then I'll do everything in my power
me and my team to make sure that this
show is better for you every single week
we'll listen to your feedback we'll find
the guests that you want me to speak to
and we'll continue to do what we do
thank you so much
a
[Music]